Adds "Can you hear me? No, but we read you" article (#1765)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2020/can-you-hear-me-no-but-we-read-you.md

---
title: "Can you hear me? No, but we read you—an experiment with video calls"
author: Quinn Keast
authorUrl: https://twitter.com/quinnkeast
publishDate: 2020-10-15
tags: [blog]
slug: can-you-hear-me-no-but-we-read-you-an-experiment-with-video-calls
heroImage: /blog/silent-team-call.png
published: true
---

At Sourcegraph, we’re all-remote. That means we write a lot—in emails, Google Docs, Github, and Slack. We work hard to cultivate a written-first culture.

> And that works beautifully for me—because, you see, I have a hearing problem. Or as I like to say, I’m deaf as a post.

Reviewer: Now I'm thinking, maybe:

```suggestion
And that works beautifully for me. Because, you see, I have a hearing problem. Or as I like to say, I’m deaf as a post.
```

While I can hear sound, [I can’t turn that sound into words](https://quinnkeast.com/readme#errata), and rely on lip reading for day-to-day conversations.

> For me, a product designer, this approach to working is amazing. Long stretches of focus time and being able to decide when and how to best do my work. And for someone with hearing loss, this almost inherently creates a more inclusive environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For me, a product designer, this approach to work is amazing. Long stretches of focus time and being able to decide when and how to best do my work. And for someone with hearing loss, this almost inherently creates a more inclusive environment.
```

> Still, from time to time, we rely on synchronous methods of communication: team syncs to catch up on a more personal level and bring teams together, moderated user research, and facilitated collaborative activities and workshops. More often than not, this means a video call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Still, from time to time, we rely on synchronous methods of communication: team syncs to catch up on a more personal level and bring teams together, moderated user research, and facilitated collaborative activities and workshops. And more often than not, synchronous means video call.
```

Video calls have always been a challenge for me. Lip reading doesn’t work well over video, because lip reading relies on a whole lot more visual information than just the lips, and video calls don’t carry the full visual and _emotional_ bandwidth needed to read lips easily. So instead, I use a series of hacks or built-in tools to help me out by providing real-time speech-to-text.

> These hacks and tools work well until things go wrong. Sometimes they’ll cut out. Sometimes they’ll lag and fall behind. When things go wrong, it can be challenging. Simple things like someone asking for my thoughts on something can create awkward moments of silence before I realize that someone said my name, because I was relying on a transcript that was five seconds behind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These hacks and tools work well, but sometimes they’ll cut out or they’ll lag and fall behind. And then simple things like someone asking for my thoughts on something can create awkward moments of silence before I realize that someone said my name, because I was relying on a transcript that was five seconds behind.
```

(Since you do the "Things work well until they don't" further down, I don't think it should be used twice)

The first attempt combined [Zoom](http://zoom.us/) and [Otter](https://otter.ai). Each person opened a browser window with the transcript, and located it somewhere on their screen so they could see the call along with the “captions.” This transcript didn’t include speaker names, so folks had to pay close attention to who was talking and map it to the transcript.

This worked well until it didn’t. Within five minutes, the transcript lagged a good 5-10 seconds behind the conversation. In my own day-to-day setup, I often use multiple speech-to-text tools simultaneously for this exact reason, so I suggested we jump over to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com), which has captions built right in.

The team immediately spotted the tradeoffs: while Meet’s captions were built in, there’s no history, meaning each person had to dedicate their attention to the captions to make sure they didn’t miss anything. And there’s a few UI issues that create friction or interrupt the captions.

But fundamentally, it _worked_. Everyone was able to participate in the call, and we had our sync.

<img src="/blog/silent-team-call.png" alt="The team on the video call" />

> ## How it went

Reviewer: But weird to read this headline after reading "But fundamentally, it _worked_." in the previous paragraph. 

I'd either get rid of the header or rename it to "Takeways" or something like that.

> ## How it went

Author: ```suggestion
## Takeaways
```

The call was a startlingly effective team bonding experience. Everyone enjoyed and learned a lot from the experience of approaching the call with a different perceptual and technological context.

> For me, it was fascinating to see how the way we interacted changed over the course of the call. Everyone became more expressive in physical space. The rhythm of conversation changed, from tentative, short sentences, to longer, well-thought-through blocks of thought. We discovered how difficult it was to go back and forth between speakers without the benefit of sound, and how important it was to give each other conversational space to join in. We discovered how hard it is to be heard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For me, it was fascinating to see how our interactions changed over the course of the call. Everyone became more expressive in physical space. The rhythm of conversation changed, from tentative, short sentences, to longer, well-thought-through blocks of thought. We discovered how difficult it was to go back and forth between speakers without the benefit of sound, and how important it was to give each other conversational space to join in. We discovered how hard it is to be heard.
```

<p><em>It was great for giving us an idea of what our teammate was experiencing, but the most important thing was that it gave us a chance to correct ourselves when we “misspoke”—when the captioning said something other than what we'd intended. This way, we avoided putting the burden of deciphering onto the engineer who relied on the captions.</em></p>
</blockquote>

## Inclusive design at Sourcegraph

At Sourcegraph, we care deeply about creating an inclusive product for everyone. This exercise reinforced on a very personal level how “ability” falls on a spectrum, and in line with inclusive design principles, how designing for the extremes of a spectrum of ability can benefit everyone.

While my own hearing loss is permanent, someone dealing with situational challenges like a flat wireless earbud, or temporary challenges, like an ear infection, can benefit from speech-to-text during video calls just as much as I do.

Our team is working on universal code search for developers. Universal code search, to us, means creating inclusive experiences from the beginning, and always working to improve our baseline for accessibility.

> <p style="padding: .75rem 1.25rem; margin-top: 2rem; background-color: #f2f4f8; border-radius: 8px; line-height: 1.5;"><strong>If we can do more to support how you   use Sourcegraph, <a href="https://airtable.com/shrqVVodqnNUGlbHj?prefill_Source=Blog+post+about+silent+team+call" target="_blank">please get in touch</a>!</strong> We’d love to talk with you to learn how we can do better.</p>

Author: ```suggestion
<p style="padding: .75rem 1.25rem; margin-top: 2rem; background-color: #f2f4f8; border-radius: 8px; line-height: 1.5;"><strong>If we can do more to support how you   use Sourcegraph, <a href="https://airtable.com/shr2JxrSfqFcySukF?prefill_Source=Blog+post+about+silent+team+call" target="_blank">please get in touch</a>!</strong> We’d love to talk with you to learn how we can do better.</p>
```
